Plan React module restructure (#65)
HackYourFuture-CPH/programme: contributing/proposals/react-restructure.md

# 📘 React & Next.js Module Restructuring Plan Proposal

> ## 🎯 Goal

Reviewer: Overall very nice proposal. You present the idea very clearly and I think it all looks good. ⭐  Also great overview with the diagrams.

> The purpose of this restructuring is to enhance trainees' learning experience by clearly distinguishing foundational React concepts from the advanced features provided by Next.js. The current structure mixes fundamental and framework-specific topics, which has caused confusion and hindered deeper understanding. By separating these topics into two distinct, focused modules—one dedicated to mastering core React concepts and another specifically for exploring Next.js—we aim to improve comprehension, reinforce skills through targeted exercises, and ultimately empower trainees to confidently build real-world applications using modern development practices.

Author: There is actually some examples of file-based routers in https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite 🤔 We can think of using those, but this is up to a discussion, I think

---

## ORIGINAL MODULE STRUCTURE

![draw io 2025-05-10 15 15 20](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1129af41-d894-422a-8b56-b7ef8fd42d07)
![draw io 2025-05-10 15 15 30](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3cee13d-472e-4e47-ac66-689b3b840ee1)

## 🧱 PROPOSED MODULE STRUCTURE

### React Module (4 Weeks)

**Description:**

> Covers everything essential about React and building React applications, including component lifecycle, state management, and routing. After completion, trainees should confidently create applications using React.

Author: ```suggestion
Covers everything essential about React and building React applications, including component lifecycle, state management, and routing. After completion, trainees should be able to create simple applications and websites using React
```

**Teaching Methodology:**

- **Flipped classroom:** With preparation materials, class sessions are dedicated to solving problems and practical implementation rather than theoretical explanations. \[From my experience, this amount of matherial might become 4-hours-lecture instead of 4-hours-practice]

> - **Preparation Materials:** Improve beyond React documentation for effective flipped classroom learning.

Reviewer: What kind of material are you referring to here? videos, blogs etc. any specific links you have in mind?

Author: This one is "to be researched", to be honest.
I don't know much resources besides official documentation (I rarely use something besides official documentation in general), but I know that people learn different ways, and maybe have video/blog/etc explaining React basics could benefit for a lot for trainees

**Technical Recommendations:**

> - Use Vite or similar library for a client-only React setup to simplify configuration and focus more on React itself.

Reviewer: I very much like us to use Vite

**Homework Strategy:**

> - "Meal Sharing" project can be integrated progressively during the course, rather than post-module only.

Reviewer: I agree that it makes sense to integrate the meal sharing app with this module. Maybe the homework could be related to the meal sharing. 
I had the initial idea with React that:
- Week 1 - make a very simple static page from a few components. Could be an "about" page.
- Week 2 - make a more complex static page where some components are reusable. I.e. a landing page with a more advanced layout of content etc.
   - For the sake of making the exercises more engaging maybe we should introduce just a button `onclick` so the trainees can see things happen and see React "Reacting". 
- Week 3 - Add more complex interactivety to the page, form inputs, loading wheel and api integration. i.e. the main feature page
- Week 4 - Tie it all together, add routing and make it "shine" (or put out burning fires from previous weeks).

> ![draw io 2025-05-10 15 15 50](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c98a4ae-aeed-41d1-afc2-33667ff6bd44)

Reviewer: Week 4 diagram has reducers twice

> ![draw io 2025-05-10 15 15 50](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c98a4ae-aeed-41d1-afc2-33667ff6bd44)

Reviewer: I think state management libraries falls in the same category as Reducers. I don't think it is required to land your first job and it is quite hard to teach why all the added overhead of the library is good to the trainees who has never seen a large project before. I would rather focus on:
* Context
* Routing
* Icon libraries
* (optionally, component libraries if time allows)

Author: Yes, I agree. Under "state management libraries" I meant only _mentioning_ that Context is not the only way to solve the problem and maybe drop a couple of names they might hear here and there. They'll research if they are interested. The same approach I suggest to "component libraries"

> ![draw io 2025-05-10 15 15 50](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c98a4ae-aeed-41d1-afc2-33667ff6bd44)

Author: It is the same staff we have in the plan right now: "Use {} in JSX" is Embedding Expressions in JSX, "Sharing state" is about props drilling.

I agree that it is overwhelming, but I don't see how we can structure differently without drastically removing content 🤔 If you have something in mind, that would be amazing

#### Weekly Goals and Topics

**Week 1:** Everything about rendering a single component.

- React Introduction
- JSX fundamentals
- Components, props, CSS imports

**Week 2:** Master state management (passing, storing, updating state).

- useState Hook
- Conditional rendering, dynamic rendering

> **Week 3:** Component lifecycle, data management (events, API), and refs.

Reviewer: I would consider if refs are required. I am not experienced in it but it seems more of an advanced feature only needed in edge cases.

Author: I think it is so React-specific thing, that it worths at least mentioning.
Also it kind of builds the bridge between what they know about browser and what React does. Last time I explained it like "constant that saved between renderings without causing updates" :D Didn't have much questions about it

Author: I, actually, showed a couple of examples from my real repo at work, and it felt like it had more sence for them after that (there was work with timers, when you store result to be able to cancel them without component update)

- Event handlers, form management
- useEffect Hook
- API integration

**Week 4:** Context, Routing, Libraries, handling real-world cases.

- React Context
- (Optional): Reducers (I haven’t seen it used in production a lot), advanced state management
- Component libraries (UI libraries)
- &#x20;Routing

> - Introduction to easy deployment (Vercel)

Reviewer: I am leaning towards not teaching Reducers. I don't think a new joiner would be expected to know that and it is hard to really teach them why using such a pattern is good if they haven't worked with a large app.

> - Introduction to easy deployment (Vercel)

Reviewer: How much effort is required to deploy to the cloud somewhere? If possible, I would love to move this to week 1 to really hammer it in early.

Author: It takes a couple of clicks in Vercel + can be integrated with PRs without additional settings (so we have "free" deployment for every homework for both modules, yay)

And Vercel is developing Next.js, so it is definitely go-to instrument for easily deploying it

---

> ### Next.js Module (1 Week)

Reviewer: Very nice proposal. I agree with the topics. 

Can we design a mini project for this module which highlights the benefits of Server side rendering or static site generation?
